# Frontier Based Multirobot Exploration

**This repository has been deprecated. The development has been moved to https://github.com/acachathuranga/multi-robot-explore.** Please download the latest code from our new repository.

Given a dynamic global map and the locations of multiple robots within the map, this package issues navigation goals to each robot in order to collaboratively explore the environment. 

## Dependencies
* ROS2

>  This package has been tested on ROS2 Humble, Ubuntu 22.04
  
**Compiling** <br /> 
>      colcon build --packages-up-to exploration --symlink-install

**Running Exploration** <br /> 
>      ros2 launch exploration exploration.launch.py namespace:= <robot_namespace> 

#### Note
The exploration nodes should be run on all robots in the system. <robot_namespace> should be replaced by the namespace of the respective robot for each instance.

### Subscribed Topics
| Topic | msg Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| /<robot_namespace>/merged_map | nav_msgs/msg/OccupancyGrid | Merged map of all robot local maps (realtime) |
| /<robot_namespace>/global_costmap/costmap | nav_msgs/msg/OccupancyGrid | Global costmap generated by the navigation stack |
| /<robot_namespace>/tf <br />  /<robot_namespace>/tf_static <br /> | tf2_msgs/msg/TFMessage | TF topic of the robot. TF topic should include transformation between the merged_map frame and namespaced base_frames of all robots (eg. Transforms between world, robot1/base_link, robot2/base_link frames)|

  
### Published Topics
 Topic | msg Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| /<robot_namespace>/frontier_targets | visualization_msgs/msg/MarkerArray | Detected frontier points <br /> - Red markers : Potential frontier points <br /> - Green marker : Frontier selected to be pursued by the robot <br /> - Blue markers : Frontiers estimated to be pursued by other robots

### Parameters
* `map_topic` : Merged map topic (default: merged_map)
* `robot_base_frame` : Base frame of the robot, excluding the namespace (default: base_footprint). 
* `robot_frame_prefix` : Robot namespace prefix (default: ssugv). The namespaces of all the robots should comprise of a common prefix and an index number (i.e. robot1, robot2)
* `rate` : Exploration goal generation rate in Hz. Frontier calculation is also performed at this rate. (default: 0.3)
* `obstacle_inflation_radius` : Inflated obstacle radius in the map, in meters (default 0.6). No frontiers will be generated within this region. It's best to match this value to the radius of the actual robot.
* `robot_count` : Number of robots in the system. Minimum 1.
